README.md, before:

# The Scottish Quiz

The Scottish Quiz is exactly that, a quiz about Scotland. This is a fun, interactive multiple choice quiz aimed to test and broaden the users knowledge of Bonnie Scotland! This quiz is aimed at people of all ages.
There is 5 multiple choice questions and the user will have 10 seconds answer each of them. As the quiz progresses so does the difficulty level of each question.

## Design

- For this project I initially sketched how I intended for the game to look on a notepad. I thereafter used Balsamiq Wireframes to plan the project as shown below.

### Home Page

  - The home page will feature the heading at the top of the page with the name of this quiz, the main background image of the beautiful Edinburgh Castle with game instructions and finally the start button to begin the game.

![Home Screen](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/04df11e0-c9cb-442c-947a-d91adbc39535)


### Game Area

![Game Area](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/a98bf78a-f203-4695-885e-a8f0993fd725)



### Final Screen

![Final Screen](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/2dd8342f-2856-4791-926c-fc15ea79e238)


### Background Image

- The background image chosen for this game is of the instantly recognisable Edinburgh Castle. This image was chosen as the Castle is located within the Scottish capital and represents hiistoriical significance to the people of Scotland. Another reason it was picked is that the image itself is beautiful...just like Scotland!

 ![edinburgh_castle_background_image](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/the-scottish-quiz/assets/134441833/d3dc6910-302f-4530-afa3-9af41e9a83db)

### Font Style

- The header on the home page will be UnifrakturCook from Google Fonts. This has been chosen due to it medieval appearance which compliments the background image of Edinburgh Castle

![Header](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/the-scottish-quiz/assets/134441833/61c8c8a8-466a-4906-8c86-4ae464412c86)

- All other text will be typed using tinos from Google Fonts. This has been chosen due to its simple, clean appearance which should allow the user to read the content of the game ie instructions and questions etc with ease.

### Colours

- The colours to be used throughout this project will be blue and white to represent the colours of the Scottish Flag.

## Features

### Home Page

- The home page will feature the heading at the top of the page with the name of this quiz, the main background image of the beautiful Edinburgh Castle with buttons to display the instructions, leaderboard and to start quiz. There is also an area her to enter your username so that your quiz score can also be stored on the leaderboard.

- (ADD SCREENSHOTS OF HEADER, INSTRUCTION AREA AND START BUTTON WHEN COMPLETE)

### Game Area

- The game area is where the user will be met with a question and four multiple choice answers.
- By clicking the answer the user wishes to submit the user will immediately be informed if their selection has been right or wrong and then move to the next question.
- At the bottom of this page will be a section containing the number of correct and incorrect answers the user has provided as well as the question number the user is currently on.
- There will also be a countdown timer feature.
 
- ( ADD SCREENSHOTS OF QUESTION AND ANSWER AREAS, TIMER, SCOREBOARD AND QUESTION COUNTER WHEN COMPLETE)
 
### Final Screen

- This page will be the final screen displayed on completetion of the quiz. Here the user will be met with their final score and presented with the option to submit their score to the leaderboard and also to restart the game.

- (ADD SCREENSHOTS OF FINAL SCORE AREA, USERNAME SUBMISSION BOX AND LEADERBOARD WHEN COMPLETE)

## Testing 




### Validator Testing 



### Unfixed Bugs

 

## Deployment



## Credits 



### Content 



### Media

Commit message:

Add user stories and credits to readme

README.md, after:

# The Scottish Quiz

The Scottish Quiz is exactly that, a quiz about Scotland. This is a fun, interactive multiple choice quiz aimed to test and broaden the users knowledge of Bonnie Scotland! This quiz is aimed at people of all ages.
There is 10 muliple choice question that the user must answer.

## User Experience

### User Stories

- First Time Visitor Goals
    - The user wants to play a multiple choice general knowledge quiz about Scotland.
    - The user wants to be able to access the quiz across a variety of devices whilst receiving the same experience.
    - The user wants the quiz format and layout to be simple and easy to understand but still remain catchy and themed to the content of the quiz.

- Returning and Frequent Visitor Goals
    - The user want to be able to record their score and view it on a leaderboard in order to better their score and compete against other users.
    - The user wants to be asked different questions so the quiz isn't repetitive.
      
## Design

- For this project I initially sketched how I intended for the game to look on a notepad. I thereafter used Balsamiq Wireframes to plan the project as shown below.

### Home Page

  - The home page will feature the heading at the top of the page with the name of this quiz, the main background image of the beautiful Edinburgh Castle with game instructions and finally the start button to begin the game.

![Home Screen](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/04df11e0-c9cb-442c-947a-d91adbc39535)


### Game Area

![Game Area](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/a98bf78a-f203-4695-885e-a8f0993fd725)



### Final Screen

![Final Screen](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/The_Scottish_Quiz/assets/134441833/2dd8342f-2856-4791-926c-fc15ea79e238)


### Background Image

- The background image chosen for this game is of the instantly recognisable Edinburgh Castle. This image was chosen as the Castle is located within the Scottish capital and represents hiistoriical significance to the people of Scotland. Another reason it was picked is that the image itself is beautiful...just like Scotland!

 ![edinburgh_castle_background_image](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/the-scottish-quiz/assets/134441833/d3dc6910-302f-4530-afa3-9af41e9a83db)

### Font Style

- The header on the home page will be UnifrakturCook from Google Fonts. This has been chosen due to it medieval appearance which compliments the background image of Edinburgh Castle

![Header](https://github.com/Chris-Tollan/the-scottish-quiz/assets/134441833/61c8c8a8-466a-4906-8c86-4ae464412c86)

- All other text will be typed using tinos from Google Fonts. This has been chosen due to its simple, clean appearance which should allow the user to read the content of the game ie instructions and questions etc with ease.

### Colours

- The colours to be used throughout this project will be blue and white to represent the colours of the Scottish Flag.

## Features

### Home Page

- The home page will feature the heading at the top of the page with the name of this quiz, the main background image of the beautiful Edinburgh Castle with buttons to display the instructions, leaderboard and to start quiz.

- (ADD SCREENSHOTS OF HEADER, INSTRUCTION AREA AND START BUTTON WHEN COMPLETE)

### Game Area

- The game area is where the user will be met with a question and four multiple choice answers.
- By clicking the answer the user wishes to submit the user will immediately be informed if their selection has been right or wrong and then move to the next question.
- At the bottom of this page will be a section containing the number of correct and incorrect answers the user has provided as well as the question number the user is currently on.
- There will also be a countdown timer feature.
 
- ( ADD SCREENSHOTS OF QUESTION AND ANSWER AREAS, TIMER, SCOREBOARD AND QUESTION COUNTER WHEN COMPLETE)
 
### Final Screen

- This page will be the final screen displayed on completetion of the quiz. Here the user will be met with their final score and presented with the option to submit their score to the leaderboard and also to restart the game.

- (ADD SCREENSHOTS OF FINAL SCORE AREA, USERNAME SUBMISSION BOX AND LEADERBOARD WHEN COMPLETE)

## Testing 




### Validator Testing 



### Unfixed Bugs

 

## Deployment



## Credits 

- In preperation for this project I reached out to some of my fellow Code Institute Students and Alumni and was made aware of an excellant tutorial on youTube for creating multiple choice quiz's using javascript. This tutorial assited me greatly with preparing and completing this project. Some of the code including the JavaScript used for parts of the question and answers as well as to store users scores and update the leaderboard that I have used has been taken from this tutorial and adapted where necessary to complete this project. - (include link to youtube  tutorial here)
- As always my Code Institute mentor has been a great help with offering his help, guidance and expertise.

### Content 



### Media
